.TH man 1 "September 16, 2014"
.LO 1
.SH NAME
mailcivi \- read mailing body text and create a mail template from it in CiviCRM
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
.RB [ \-vh ]
.RB [ \--civicrm
.IR url ]
.RB [ \--action
.RB {
.IR nothing
.R |
.IR create
.R |
.IR send
.RI }
.IB ]
.RB [ \--sitekey
.IR key ]
.RB [ \--apikey
.IR key ]
.RB [ \--name
.IR name ]
.RB [ \--subject
.IR subject ]
.RB [ \--from_id
.IR id ]
.RB [ \--to_id
.IR id ]
.RB [ \--to_name
.IR groupname ]
.RB [ \--json
.IR file ]
.RB [ \--url
.IR url ]
.RB [ \--html
.IR file ]
.RB [ \--text
.IR file ]
.RB [ \--text
.IR file ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mailcivi
is a script to read text forming the proposed body of an email and create a MailTemplate
object in a
.I CiviCRM
instance. The body text can be provided in several ways: from local
files, from a local JSON array, or from a remote URL supplying JSON data.
.PP
Once the MailTemplate object is created, the mail actually can be further modified and/or
sent using the normal
.I CiviCRM
user interface.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-\^civicrm " url"
Specify the URL for the remote CiviCRM instance. The URL must include the path to the
civicrm module, and not just the homepage. For example in Drupal/Civi:
.BR http://example.com/sites/all/modules/civicrm .
.TP
.B \-\-action " action"
What to do:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
"nothing" \- do not create a template or send it.
.IP \(bu 4
"create" \- create a template on CiviCRM but do not send it.
.IP \(bu 4
"send" \- create a template on CiviCRM and also send it, if the recipient group has also been defined.
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-sitekey " key"
The CiviCRM site key, which is part of the installation configuration.
.TP
.B \-\-apikey " key"
The user's API key, which is part of the user profile. There is no user-interface within
.I CiviCRM
to create an api key.
.TP
.BR \-\-name " name "
A string which will be used to name the mail template within
.I CiviCRM
but which is not visible to email recipients.
.TP
.BR \-\-subject " subject "
A string which will be used as the proposed subject line in the new mail template.
.TP
.BR \-\-from_id " id "
A small integer identifying the CiviCRM user which will own the mail template and which
by default will be named as the sender of any email.
.TP
.BR \-\-to_id " id "
A small integer identifying the CiviCRM group ID to which this template will be addressed.
Only used if 'action' is 'send'. Only one of to_id or to_name can be set.
.TP
.BR \-\-to_name " name "
A small integer identifying the CiviCRM group name to which this template will be addressed.
Only used if 'action' is 'send'. Only one of to_id or to_name can be set.
.TP
.BR \-\-json " file"
A file containing JSON-encoded data in four fields:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
"subject" \- as for the --subject command line option.
.IP \(bu 4
"from_id" \- as for the --from_id command line option.
.IP \(bu 4
"name" \- as for the --name command line option.
.IP \(bu 4
"html" \- a file containing the HTML version of the body of the email template.
.IP \(bu 4
"plain" \- optional file containing the plain text version of the body of the email template. If not present, it
will be created from the HTML version.
.RE

.SH JSON DATA
If used with either the file or url sources, the JSON data file must have the following form.
.nf
.RS
{
  "name": "The name of the template in Civi",
  "action": "create",
  "subject": "The mail template subject line",
  "creator_id": "960",
  "from_email": "staff@example.org",
  "from_name": "example",
  "recipient": "",
  "html": ".. html text ..",
  "plain": ".. plain text .."
}
.RE
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following reads a JSON data source at the example.com domain and constructs a template on
the server at the example.org domain. No --action is specified, so the template is only created
and no schedule is set for sending it.
.PP
.nf
.RS
mailcivi --civicrm=http://example.org/sites/all/modules/civicrm \\
   --url=http://example.com/content_json/vor \\
   --sitekey=fddfuhef1153ac --apikey=34o8vbeofu
.RE
.fi

.PP
The following reads the template data a local JSON file and creates a template on the server
at the example.org domain. The recipients are set to those in the group with id '31' and assuming
that such a group exists, the mail will be sent immediately.
.PP
.nf
.RS
mailcivi --action=send \\
   --civicrm=http://example.org/sites/all/modules/civicrm \\
   --json=local.json \\
   --to_id=31 \\
   --sitekey=fddfuhef1153ac --apikey=34o8vbeofu
.RE

.fi
.PP
The following reads the template data a local JSON file and creates a template on the server
at the example.org domain. The recipients are set to those in the group with id '31' and assuming
that such a group exists, the mail will be sent immediately.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \(bu 4
python-civicrm \- project on Github that wraps the CiviCRM API as a Python object.

.SH AUTHOR
.B mailcivi
and this manual page was written by Ruth Ivimey-Cook for eLifesciences.
